---
title: "My Experience with the GPEN exam."
mathjax: true
layout: post
categories: media
---

## THE GPEN

The exam was hard. lol.

First of all, I followed this tutorial to help prepare for the exams and materials the same way the author did.
[Better GIAC Testing with Pancakes](https://tisiphone.net/2015/08/18/giac-testing/)

With the GIAC, we were given two practice exams, five books, 2 lab books, one exam, command sheets provided by GIAC, and ISO images. Materials that I used are pencils, pens, sticky notes, post-it tabs or flags, and highlighters.

On my first exam, I got a 36%. I was under a deadline to complete this first exam, as I was in a program. One of the few things I did wrong was not completing my index and the labs. My index was very vague and only covered in the index in the books GIAC gave us. I missed all the lab questions on the exams. I knew I wasn't passing this part. I began fixing my index and completed most of the labs (the ones I noticed in the exam). I also wasn't keeping track of time at all. For every question, the answer is in the book. I spent too much time looking for the answer to one question. I barely had any time for the lab questions. I only skimmed through the book and only watched the videos provided by GIAC. Don't do this. The book offers the slide number and its content, along with additional information. Some info may be in the book or the videos themselves. 


__________
On my second exam, I got a 75%. The passing score for the GPEN. This isn't good. I was on the borderline of passing and failing. I was still on a time crunch to finish my certification before I start my spring 2025 classes. I completed all the labs and tried to do them myself without the book. I began honing in on my book index. 

Fix it into this format: 

Book,    Topic,    Comments
- 2.114 
- /etc/password 
- Linux file, world-readable, can be viewed to see a list of user accounts


Book,    Topic,    Comments
- 4.39
- GetUserSPN.py
- gets a list of Server Principal Names

I also created a time tracker! I planned the amount of time I should spend on each question and provided time slots for my breaks.
[GPEN Tracker]("GPEN_Tracker.pdf")

I created an index for my labs.
Book (book#, page#) |   Lab #    |  Tools   |  Comments
- 1.252
- 3.5 - Cracking Passwords with Hashcat
- Hashcat, Options -a, -m, Cracked Linux and Windows password hashes, Options -r rules, Syntax - ?l?d?s?u, LM - 3000, NTLM - 1000, NetNTLMv2 - 5600, SHA512 ($6) - 1800, md5crypt ($1) - 500, MD5 - 0, Kerberos -m 13100
- OBJ: Use Hashcat to crack pw hashes from Windows and Linux systems. How Hashcat rules files can help crack hashes more successfully.


_________
On the actual exam, I got a 92%. Actually completing the lab, fixing my index, watching the videos on the sections I needed help with, and keeping track of my time were the solutions. I didn't study the day before and just printed both of the indexes, any sheets GIAC provides, and collected all the books. My computer was having trouble passing the proctor tests. Restarting and only opening the proctor site helps. I passed all of the lab questions and continue with the questions I flagged.

[GIAC Penetration Tester Certification (GPEN)](https://www.giac.org/certifications/penetration-tester-gpen/)
